MGMT-12996: enhancement for dynamic OCP fetching (#4893)
openshift/assisted-service: docs/enhancements/dynamic-fetching-of-openshift-versions.md

---
title: dynamic-fetching-of-openshift-versions
authors:
  - "@osherdp"
creation-date: 2023-01-12
last-updated: 2023-01-12
---

# Dynamic Fetching of OpenShift Versions

Letting users of Assisted Installer API and UI to choose an OpenShift version
out of a variety of supported versions, all without the need to specifically
configure each of those versions.

## Summary

Currently, we have defined processes to support the growing list of OpenShift
versions. It can be separated to the following cases:
* Adding a newly released minor version of OpenShift when it's first introduced
  as part of an EC (Engineering Candidate), FC (Feature Complete) or RC (Release
  Complete) versions. For example, OpenShift 4.12 had its first appearance as
  version ``4.12.0-ec.0``. With the new version we usually also add live-iso
  discovery images that are appropriate for the release.
* Updating beta releases like EC/FC/RC by following candidate channels like
  ``candidate-4.12``.

> * Updating to the first official stable version when it's GA (Globally
>   Available). For example, updating to 4.12.0 once it's published and available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updating to the first official stable version when it's GA (General
  Availability). For example, updating to 4.12.0 once it's published and available
```

  for customers to use.
* Updating stable releases following stable channels like ``stable-4.12``.

All those actions consist of either manual updates by developers or automatic
tools like https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/assisted-installer-ops/assisted-installer-cicd.
Either manual or automatic, we usually override releases with the new ones (e.g.

> replacing 4.12.0 with 4.12.1) to make sure we don't grow too much our configuration
> files. As per special requests (usually made by customers), we append additional
> versions. For example, see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
replacing 4.12.0 with 4.12.1) to prevent our configuration files from becoming too
large. We retain specific versions as per special requests (usually made by
customers/partners). For example, see:
```

> https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/3fb1ac40a81c7de9bdf1ae6262798fee9336debf/data/services/assisted-installer/cicd/target/production/assisted-service.yaml

Author: but it's not an example for specifying x.y.z version for customers
in ``data/default_release_images.json`` we don't have an example for that

> https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/3fb1ac40a81c7de9bdf1ae6262798fee9336debf/data/services/assisted-installer/cicd/target/production/assisted-service.yaml

Reviewer 2: Still we probably shouldn't have non-public information here.

> https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/3fb1ac40a81c7de9bdf1ae6262798fee9336debf/data/services/assisted-installer/cicd/target/production/assisted-service.yaml

Author: I'll remove the example so we can be left with no examples :smile:

> The idea of this enhancement is configuring the assisted-service to the OpenShift

Author: done!

channels it needs to follow (e.g. ``candidate-4.12``, ``stable-4.11``), and let
it periodically fetch versions to provide them to customers.

## Motivation

It becomes a pretty tedious process to handle each version separately. Some
use-cases we tend to have:
* A certain customer use a specific version x.y.z for certification, and we replace
  this version with a newer one x.y.z+w (w>=1). In this case we'll append again the
  x.y.z version to the configuration.
* As described above, we do version updates either automatically or manually.
* QE team wants to check if a newly added OpenShift version has a regression in its
  behavior from a previous version.
* QE team tests a flow which includes OpenShift upgrade process.

### Goals

> * Assisted-service is able to provide all versions included in the upgrade-channels,

Author: * You mean only adding the X latest versions for a channel?
* See below, currently the suggestion is to only include items in this API (and not exclude everything that misses from there). So by default it will always 'lock' a version in the list

> * Assisted-service is able to provide all versions included in the upgrade-channels,

Reviewer 3: Yeah, meant we could have a configuration for the number of versions to include. But can be handled later if needed.

  based on provided configuration.

> * We keep ourselves the option to specifically configure certain versions as we can

Author: Correct

> * We keep ourselves the option to specifically configure certain versions as we can

Author: it's being explained in the next sentence
just for maximal flexibility and for handling some edge-cases

> * We keep ourselves the option to specifically configure certain versions as we can

Reviewer 2: Do we know what those edge cases are? That doesn't actually explain any real scenario we might encounter.

I'm imagining us in the future asking why this is still here and not being able to find a reason why.

> * We keep ourselves the option to specifically configure certain versions as we can

Author: I'll mention some cases on "risks and mitigations"

  nowadays. This is to make sure we can handle edge-cases and be flexible if needed.
* UI needs to be adjusted to handle this growing list of versions (at the time being,
  a total of ~140 versions).

### Non-Goals

* Dynamic handling of y-versions, live-iso discovery images, and such. A new minor
  OpenShift version is introduced every 4 months, requires additional code changes
  (for example in feature-support-level list) and it isn't worth the costs and
  implications of making assisted-image-service refresh itself and pull-in new
  images.
* Handling OpenShift versions in a kubernetes API interface. For this use-case
  versions are externally configured in the ``ClusterImageSet`` custom resource.

## Proposal

The assisted-service will make use of a new configuration variable called
``DYNAMIC_OPENSHIFT_RELEASES_CONFIG``, which outlines the supported matrix. For
example:

```

> DYNAMIC_OPENSHIFT_RELEASES_CONFIG='{

Reviewer 3: Do we need the "upgrade_channels" so the config could be extended later on? If not, maybe we can call the var something like 'OCP_RELEASES_UPGRADE_CHANNELS'. I.e. a map from 'version' to array.

Author: yes it's for future extensions
I thought maybe we'll want to add more configuration in the future to control retention per-version

   "4.11": {
      "upgrade_channels": [
         {
            "cpu_architecture": "x86_64",
            "channels": ["stable"]
         }
      ]
   },
   "4.12": {
      "upgrade_channels": [
         {
            "cpu_architecture": "x86_64",
            "channels": ["candidate", "stable"]
         },
         {
            "cpu_architecture": "arm64",
            "channels": ["candidate", "stable"]
         },
         {
            "cpu_architecture": "multi",
            "channels": ["candidate", "stable"]
         }
      ]
   }
}'

> ```

Reviewer 3: Do we need some API to fetch this list? Maybe so the user could ensure it's configured properly.

Author: nice idea. added

> The assisted-service periodically polls versions from the ``upgrades_info`` API

Reviewer 3: Is there some impl details for that? Worth discussing exactly how/where it should be polled.

Author: it's debatable, but I thought doing that every hour with the existing threads mechanism we have (I think we're using it for the monitor)
wdyt?

Reviewer 3: Sure can be discussed later, sounds like a good option to use our monitor infra. Though if we decide to just cache the list without using db, may worth looking into [gocron](https://github.com/go-co-op/gocron).

Author: ack. going for in-memory no-additional-thread for now but I'll keep this in mind if we'll change our minds

> in the form of ``https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph?channel=<channel>&arch=<arch>``.

Reviewer: We should make the prefix of the URL configurable also

Author: the part of ``https://api.openshift.com``?

Author: It exists for staging and integration as well, so it does make sense to have the ``https://api.openshift.com`` configurable if we'll decide to match it with the environment
As for the rest of the URL, it makes sense pin the v1 API. I wouldn't expect it to change more than that

Author: Actually it's ``OCM_BASE_URL``, so we can re-use it

For example:
```
$ curl -s 'https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph?channel=stable-4.11&arch=amd64' \
    | jq -r '.nodes[] | select(.version | startswith("4.11")) | .version'
4.11.9
4.11.4
4.11.8
...
```

> It then adds any new version found by this process in the database. When a

Reviewer 3: Not sure we actually need to store it in DB. If we fetch periodically anyway, maybe we can just cache the result for a while.

Author: will be discussed in that other thread below

consumer of the API requests the available versions via ``/v2/openshift-versions``
(either it's the UI or a direct REST request) versions are read from the
database.

To help fetching only certain versions via auto-completion like U/X, we should
provide a parameter ``version_pattern`` for the ``/v2/openshift-versions``
endpoint. For example:
```
/v2/openshift-versions:
   get:
      ...
      parameters:
        - in: query

>           name: version_pattern

Reviewer 3: Should we support multiple 'version_pattern'? E.g. So the UI could fetch all vers in a single request.

Author: they can do it by not providing the ``version_pattern`` parameter (or having it empty)

#### Configuring the Dynamically-loaded Versions of a Stream

As a system administrator for the assisted-installer, I should have the option
to configure both dynamically-loaded and statically-loaded OpenShift version.
To do that, I can provide the following environment variables for example:
```
RELEASE_IMAGES='[
  {
    "openshift_version": "4.12-multi",
    "cpu_architecture": "multi",
    "cpu_architectures": [
        "x86_64",
        "arm64",
        "ppc64le",
        "s390x"
    ],
    "url": "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release:4.12.0-rc.4-multi",
    "version": "4.12.0-rc.4"
  }
]'

DYNAMIC_OPENSHIFT_RELEASES_CONFIG='[
  {
    "openshift_version": "4.11",
    "upgrade_channels": [
        {
          "cpu_architecture": "x86_64",
          "channels": ["stable"]
        }
    ]
  },
  {
    "openshift_version": "4.11",
    "upgrade_channels": [
      {
        "cpu_architecture": "x86_64",
        "channels": ["candidate", "stable"]
      },
      {
        "cpu_architecture": "arm64",
        "channels": ["candidate", "stable"]
      }
    ]
  }
]'
```

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints [optional]

Mostly conveyed in ``Risks and Mitigations``.

> ### Risks and Mitigations

Reviewer 4: please add a case when we will get a new major release from the API, for example: 4.13 - we need to add it also to the image service repo

Reviewer 4: please add a few words about the connection between assisted service versions and image service versions

Author: added

It is important to make sure we don't make this problem more severe, as this
enhancement introduces much more versions which may (or may not) cause use of
them.
A possible solution here is implementing the cache as a LRU-like cache, making
sure we evict the old entries when we reach a certain capacity.

We should make sure we don't consume too much memory when fetching releases.
It's especially critical when the user queries for the different versions, but
might happen in other cases too.

We need to think of the retention policy of versions. We don't expect to have
versions removed from the upgrade-channels API, but just in case we should only
add versions and not mirror exactly the given result of those API responses.
As opposed to that, when a minor release gets EOL (end-of-life) and we remove it
from the configuration, the service should remove all the stale versions from
the database.

## Design Details [optional]

If an enhancement is complex enough, design details should be included. When not
included, reviewers reserve the right to ask for this section to be filled in to
enable more thoughtful discussion about the enhancement and it's impact.

> ### Open Questions

Reviewer 5: inst our main limitation is that the image service downloads all the images upon restart? so every release we'll have to restart the service?

Author: in this suggestion the image service stays static with what images it provides (that are x.y images for each supported cpu-arch)

Reviewer 5: so we'll use outdated live iso?

Author: no, we have an existing process to update rhcos images from mirror.openshift.com

> * Is the database usage a real necessity? The idea is having the periodic thread

Reviewer 3: Exactly. If we're gonna fetch periodically anyway, maybe we can just cache the result for a while.

Author: will it work well when being done from different threads?

Reviewer 3: I think [go-cache](https://github.com/patrickmn/go-cache) we usually use is thread safe, but we can also try just using [gocron](https://github.com/go-co-op/gocron) instead of our monitor.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need polling here. We should be able to look up new versions when the user asks for one we don't know about.

Reviewer 2: We already have a cache for versions in `internal/versions/versions.go` that should just continue to be the cache.

Author: > I don't think we need polling here. We should be able to look up new versions when the user asks for one we don't know about.

@carbonin the suggested U/X is to provide the user with available versions. It means deciding on that list on the assisted-service level
do you mean having the UI gather all the versions and let the client-side set a version for a cluster? (I just want to make sure I understand your suggestion)

Reviewer 3: +1 on that. We can also just invoke the query on cache expire. I.e. if the value in cache is [stale](https://github.com/patrickmn/go-cache/blob/master/cache.go#L128), fetch the list from api.openshift

Author: I'm on the fence here, because it is much simpler but has a major disadvantage. If this logic happens in the same thread of the http server, some requests can stall with their response for too long

I need to benchmark it a bit to understand if it's really substantial on the nominal case
Either way remember it's a dependency on an external API that can also be down / have an outage / not perform well. We wouldn't want to wait too long for its responses to return

Reviewer 3: We use a similar mechanism when calling AMS, so I think it should be safe enough. E.g. https://github.com/openshift/assisted-service/blob/master/pkg/auth/rhsso_authz_handler.go
There's also the fallback to the current release images list, right? So in case of an error/timeout we'd just return the fallback list.

Reviewer 2: Indeed we should be able to configure a client-side timeout.
We will want to ensure we protect the in-memory release image list with a locking mechanism though.

I had considered this when doing the versions refactor, but we'll definitely need it now.

Author: Ack. I'll change to in-memory implementation and mention caveats of this solution in the mitigations & risks section

  updating the database, and then the HTTP server is able to filter versions from
  the database at its leisure. If there's a good way to do it in-memory and it
  doesn't consume too much of it, it might be better.
* When implementing the binaries LRU cache, should we prioritize the latest
  versions of each y-release? We expect those to be the most common ones, but
  maybe it's better to let the LRU mechanism determine what's the common versions

>   by itself?

Reviewer 3: Maybe we can use the [default](https://github.com/openshift/assisted-service/blob/58b7b4b0fd8e5a43c4b27ab28086c896fa636f27/swagger.yaml#L6382) flag for each y-stream. E.g. rely on it being defined in RELEASE_IMAGES.

Author: it is currently a global default (the one version out of all versions to be displayed by default)

* How should we limit database entries? In case of a bug in the code that writes
  way too much version entries, can we make sure to mitigate the issue on our
  side? (without interrupting app-sre for their help on manual database
  intervention)

> ### UI Impact

Reviewer 4: I think that the default response for the openshift-versions API should include the default(latest) version per OCP release and we should add a filter to this API with option to send ALL versions otherwise it will take lots of time to load list of 180 versions + 
@nirfarkas @jkilzi WDYT?

Author: Done!

the assisted-service caching a lot of different openshift installer binaries.
It is important to make sure we don't make this problem more severe, as this
enhancement introduces much more versions which may (or may not) cause use of
them.
A possible solution here is implementing the cache as a LRU-like cache, making
sure we evict the old entries when we reach a certain capacity.

We should make sure we don't consume too much memory when fetching releases.
It's especially critical when the user queries for the different versions, but
might happen in other cases too.

With the suggested solution we don't have a way to retain versions that were
removed from the upgrade-channels API. While it's not probable we should keep
that in mind.

## Design Details

### Open Questions

* When implementing the binaries LRU cache, should we prioritize the latest
  versions of each y-release? We expect those to be the most common ones, but
  maybe it's better to let the LRU mechanism determine what are the common
  versions by itself?
* How should we limit the amount of versions handled? In case of an enormous
  amount of version entries returned from the API, can we make sure to mitigate

>   the issue on our side?

Reviewer 2: Not sure I understand this. Limit in what way? Isn't the idea behind this proposal that we don't limit what is available? What actual problem is this referencing?

Author: limit the amount of versions, for example by taking only the latest X versions in a stream
everything that has the potential to grow too much might cause issues in some ways, but just as an example it might consume too much memory, cause performance issues, etc

We need to see how it goes in the future, some things are hard to foresee

Reviewer 2: Sure, but open questions are meant to be answered :sweat_smile: 

How many versions would we end up with if we adopted this approach today? Maybe try to configure all of them manually with the process we currently have and see if we run into any issues?

Author: Yeah, I did this calculation. See here: https://github.com/openshift/assisted-service/blob/4b4c27b5b99a3f1639f37cb81fb9ccd92a112f5f/docs/enhancements/dynamic-fetching-of-openshift-versions.md#L61

I can give the manual test a go, but my original concern is not about the *current* amount of images returned from the API but rather a potentially large response we're getting from it *in the future*. Do you understand? :)

Reviewer 2: Sure, but is this something you want to address? Otherwise I think it should probably go into the risks/mitigations section.

Author: No, I think it's a minor one
I'll add it to the risks/mitigations section

* Should we find a way to retain versions if they get out of the
  upgrade-channels API, and if so how. DB can be a solution but so some cache

>   implementations.

Reviewer 2: Is this not the reasoning for keeping the existing `RELEASE_IMAGES` variable?

Author: It's only one edge-case that can be handled by it (but there's a lot more)
Another one is a release that didn't get into any channel yet (happened with 4.12 EC versions at first)

Reviewer 2: Can you add these examples as potential reasons in by previous question about why we're keeping `RELEASE_IMAGES`. Then you can just remove this question since we have a solution for it.

Author: Done!

4.11.9 => quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:94b611f00f51c9acc44ca3f4634e46bd79d7d28b46047c7e3389d250698f0c99
4.11.4 => quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:e04ee7eea9e6a6764df218bcce3ee64e1816445158a0763954b599e0fc96580b
...
```

When an API consumer (either it's the UI or a direct HTTP consumer) requests
for the available versions via ``/v2/openshift-versions``, versions will be read
from the upgrades-channels API if it weren't queried for a configurable amount
of time (for example, an hour).

To help fetching only certain versions via auto-completion like U/X, we should
provide a parameter ``version_pattern`` for the ``/v2/openshift-versions``
endpoint, along with a ``only_latest`` parameter. For example:
```
/v2/openshift-versions:
   get:
      ...
      parameters:
        - in: query
          name: version_pattern
          description: Version pattern for the returned releases. E.g. '4.12'.
          type: string
          required: false
        - in: query
          name: only_latest
          description: It true, returns only the latest version for each minor.
          type: boolean
          allowEmptyValue: true

>           default: false

Author: @avishayt @danielerez do you think it should be ``true`` by default?
otherwise it returns a big list that might be a bit weird for some API consumers

Reviewer 3: Yeah, changing the current behaviour of the API might be confusing for existing users.
What about introducing instead a property for getting all versions? Something like 'include_all_minor' boolean.
From the UI perspective, it seems that only two variants will be used: the old behaviour (only latest) and version_pattern. So getting all minor versions seems like a rare option that deserves a separate special param.

Author: ``include_all_minor`` is the same as having the proposed ``only_latest``, no?

Reviewer 3: > `include_all_minor` is the same as having the proposed `only_latest`, no?

Yeah, just the opposite :) Not crucial, just sounds more straightforward than 'only_latest=false'

Author: hmm, by the way [minor is the y part](https://semver.org/#summary) so do you mean ``include_all_patch_versions``?

Reviewer 3: > hmm, by the way [minor is the y part](https://semver.org/#summary) so do you mean `include_all_patch_versions`?

right, tried to shorten 'include all for minor', naming is hard:) maybe can be just 'all_versions' and explain in the description what is returned exactly.

Author: Sounds good
Thanks!

  versions are externally configured in the ``ClusterImageSet`` custom resource.

## Proposal

The assisted-service will make use of a new configuration variable called
``DYNAMIC_OPENSHIFT_RELEASES_CONFIG``, which outlines the supported matrix. For
example:

```
DYNAMIC_OPENSHIFT_RELEASES_CONFIG='{
   "4.11": {
      "upgrade_channels": [
         {
            "cpu_architecture": "x86_64",
            "channels": ["stable"]
         }
      ]
   },
   "4.12": {
      "upgrade_channels": [
         {
            "cpu_architecture": "x86_64",
            "channels": ["candidate", "stable"]
         },
         {
            "cpu_architecture": "arm64",
            "channels": ["candidate", "stable"]
         },
         {
            "cpu_architecture": "multi",
            "channels": ["candidate", "stable"]
         }
      ]
   }
}'
```

The assisted-service periodically polls versions from the ``upgrades_info`` API
in the form of ``https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph?channel=<channel>&arch=<arch>``.
For example:
```
$ curl -s 'https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph?channel=stable-4.11&arch=amd64' \

>     | jq -r '.nodes[] | select(.version | startswith("4.11")) | .version'

Reviewer 2: An example that includes the payload may be more useful here as that's what we're really interested in.
Something like:

```
$ curl -s 'https://api.openshift.com/api/upgrades_info/v1/graph?channel=stable-4.11&arch=amd64' | jq -r '.nodes[] | .version + " => " + .payload'
4.10.9 => quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:39f360002b9b5c730d1167879ad6437352d51e72acc9fe80add3ec2a0d20400d
4.10.35 => quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:766bc6b381163ecccfea00556dd336dd49067413f69cbc29337fea778295c7bb
4.10.23 => quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:e40e49d722cb36a95fa1c03002942b967ccbd7d68de10e003f0baa69abad457b
4.11.4 => quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:e04ee7eea9e6a6764df218bcce3ee64e1816445158a0763954b599e0fc96580b
4.11.8 => quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-release@sha256:6499bc69a0707fcad481c3cb73226c364586761c45b867dc31b345c6e6204e28
```

Author: done!

      ...
      parameters:
        - in: query
          name: version_pattern
          description: Version pattern for the returned releases. E.g. '4.12'.
          type: string
          required: false
        - in: query
          name: only_latest
          description: It true, returns only the latest version for each minor.
          type: boolean
          allowEmptyValue: true
          default: false
```

In addition, we should expose a new API to show the current configuration
of dynamic releases for debugging and transparency purposes.

We will still need to handle each new minor version (x.y) by:
* adding RHCOS images for the new version for each supported CPU architecture.
* adding x.y to the new ``DYNAMIC_OPENSHIFT_RELEASES_CONFIG`` configuration.
* setting the relevant feature-levels in feature-support-levels list.

This way the assisted-service can support each x.y.z version by fetching a
matching x.y RHCOS version from the assisted-image-service. The
assisted-image-service stays up and ready to serve all supported RHCOS images
and the amount of images is only the bare minimum.
We assume here that each x.y RHCOS version is backwards and forwards compatible

> with all x.y.z OpenShift versions.

Reviewer 2: I think it may be worth highlighting this somewhere more visible. Maybe in `Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints`?

Author: Done!

the assisted-service caching a lot of different openshift installer binaries.
It is important to make sure we don't make this problem more severe, as this
enhancement introduces much more versions which may (or may not) cause use of
them.
A possible solution here is implementing the cache as a LRU-like cache, making
sure we evict the old entries when we reach a certain capacity.

We should make sure we don't consume too much memory when fetching releases.
It's especially critical when the user queries for the different versions, but
might happen in other cases too.

We need to think of the retention policy of versions. We don't expect to have
versions removed from the upgrade-channels API, but just in case we should only
add versions and not mirror exactly the given result of those API responses.
As opposed to that, when a minor release gets EOL (end-of-life) and we remove it
from the configuration, the service should remove all the stale versions from
the database.

## Design Details [optional]

If an enhancement is complex enough, design details should be included. When not
included, reviewers reserve the right to ask for this section to be filled in to

> enable more thoughtful discussion about the enhancement and it's impact.

Reviewer 2: You can remove the template text here :sweat_smile:

### Open Questions

* Is the database usage a real necessity? The idea is having the periodic thread
  updating the database, and then the HTTP server is able to filter versions from
  the database at its leisure. If there's a good way to do it in-memory and it
  doesn't consume too much of it, it might be better.
* When implementing the binaries LRU cache, should we prioritize the latest
  versions of each y-release? We expect those to be the most common ones, but
  maybe it's better to let the LRU mechanism determine what are the common
  versions by itself?

> * How should we limit database entries? In case of a bug in the code that writes

Reviewer 2: I we do go the route of putting this in the database, how would we delete entries we actually don't want to support anymore?

I think the real question about the DB is if we're going to be issuing too many requests to this versions service, but I think it's used directly by OCP clusters right? If that's the case we'd be a drop in the bucket asking a few times an hour.

  way too much version entries, can we make sure to mitigate the issue on our
  side? (without interrupting app-sre for their help on manual database
  intervention)

### UI Impact

The UI should prioritize the latest versions when displaying the different
options. Only in need to customize the version (meaning installing an older one),

> then it requires clicking on 'Show all available versions' and searching for the

Reviewer 2: We should probably get UX involved earlier rather than later on this.

@nirfarkas

Author: They already gave their input and this part describes it

right one.

### Test Plan

A simple e2e test can be made, but it's a bit of waste. The main logic
all happens pre-installation and a little bit when preparing the installation.

For subsystem we can simulate activity with the upgrade-channels API by using
wiremock.

QE test-plan should be fairly simple on the API part - just trying to install
some arbitrary "older" version. When UI gets adjusted to first show latest
versions is where they'll have to change the UI automation.

## Drawbacks

* It means QE no longer verify that each OpenShift version is installable via
  assisted-installer.
* We lose a bit of control over which versions we introduce. It means if

>   some existing version has a bug, we don't have a way to exclude it.

Reviewer 2: This seems like something we could handle though, right?
Maybe not necessary on the first path, but excluding some list of specific releases should be easy enough.

Author: Right, we can easily add an exclude-list after finding out that a version has a bug
I'll update the doc
